!Accessing request data (query parameters, body, headers):
In Express, you can access various types of request data:
Query Parameters: Query parameters are part of the URL and can be accessed using the req.query object. For example, if the URL is "/users?name=John&age=25", you can access the name and age parameters using req.query.name and req.query.age.

Request Body: To access data sent in the request body (e.g., form data, JSON), you need to use middleware like body-parser or the built-in express.json() middleware. Once the middleware is applied, you can access the request body using req.body.

Headers: Request headers can be accessed using the req.headers object. You can retrieve specific headers by their name, such as req.headers['content-type'].

!Sending different types of responses (JSON, HTML, files):
Express provides methods to send different types of responses to the client:
JSON Response: You can send JSON responses using the res.json() method. It automatically sets the appropriate Content-Type header and converts the JavaScript object to JSON.

HTML Response: To send an HTML response, you can use the res.send() method and pass in the HTML content as a string.

File Download: To send a file for download, you can use the res.download() method and provide the file path.

Redirect: To redirect the client to a different URL, you can use the res.redirect() method and specify the target URL.

!Handling errors and sending error responses:
In Express, you can handle errors by either throwing an error or calling the next() function with an error object. You can define error handling middleware using four parameters (err, req, res, next). The error handling middleware is typically defined after other middlewares and routes.
Inside the error handling middleware, you can access the error object and send an appropriate error response to the client using res.status() and res.json() or res.send().

!Writing custom middleware functions:
Custom middleware functions in Express allow you to add your own logic to the request-response cycle. A middleware function takes three parameters (req, res, next) and can perform tasks such as logging, authentication, data validation, etc. You can define custom middleware functions using app.use() or specify them for specific routes.

!Implementing third-party middleware (body-parser, morgan, etc.):
Express allows you to integrate third-party middleware to enhance your application's functionality. Middleware libraries like body-parser are used to parse the request body, while morgan can be used for request logging. You can install these middleware libraries using npm and apply them using app.use().

!Order of middleware execution:
The order of middleware execution is crucial in Express. Middleware functions are executed in the order they are defined using app.use(). It's important to consider the order of middleware to ensure that the request flows through them correctly and that they have access to the appropriate request and response objects.
App level(app.use) - router level(route.use) - Route-specific middleware(get post ke beach mai) - Error-handling middleware

!Error handling middleware:
Error handling middleware is defined with four parameters (err, req, res, next). It allows you to handle errors that occur during the request-response cycle. Error handling middleware is typically defined after other middlewares and routes. It can access the error object and send an appropriate error response to the client.

!Templating Engines:
Templating engines in Express allow you to dynamically generate HTML pages. Examples of popular templating engines include EJS, Pug (formerly Jade), and Handlebars. Templating engines provide features like template inheritance, variables, conditionals, loops, and partials to help you generate dynamic HTML content to send as a response.

To use a templating engine, you need to set it up in your Express application, specify the template engine using app.set('view engine', 'ejs') (for example), and then render the templates using res.render() in your route handlers.

Let me know if you have any further questions or if there's anything else you'd like to learn about these topics!








!error handling middleware - 
app.get('/users/:id', (req, res, next) => {
  const userId = req.params.id;

  * Simulating a database operation
  * In this example, the database operation throws an error
  * You can replace this with actual database code
  const user = getUserFromDatabase(userId);
  if (!user) {
    const error = new Error('User not found');
    error.status = 404;
    return next(error);
  }

  res.send(user);
});

* Error handling middleware
app.use((err, req, res, next) => {
  * Set a default error status code if it's not already set
  const statusCode = err.status || 500;

  * Send an error response to the client
  res.status(statusCode).json({
    error: {
      message: err.message,
      status: statusCode
    }
  });
});
